Okay, so at this point, we've got
about 60% of the Redux API covered.
We've got bindActionCreators,
which kinda just uses compose.
Compose takes multiple functions and
creates new functions out of them.
We got createStore, which is arguably
the most important part of the API, and
itself had four methods.
So we're 60% of the way through, and
if you think about actual complexity,
we're really a lot closer to
understanding all that there is to Redux.
Applying it will bring up some new
challenges that we'll have to work
through, but Redux itself is
just objects and functions.
So let's look at combine reducers, and
I kind of alluded to this earlier, and
there was a question around this as well,
as the state gets a little bit more
complicated, changing this stuff
can be a little bit harder as well.
So go ahead, let's clear out some of this.
Let's say we had an initialState
where we had, I don't know,
like a to do list where we might
assign stuff to different users.
So our initialState Could have users.
And we'll give an id of 1.
And the id of 2.
We'll give them name.
Can't see the names on the zoom from here.
I can see Eric.
Yep, that's an object as well,
you gotta wrap these into an object.
Great, and then we'll have tasks.
Which will have, I don't know, a title.
And we'll say Order more
monster energy drinks.
They're not sponsoring, so
they don't get mentioned.
Order more energy drinks.
All right, and as we saw before,
if we just wanted to change
user number 2's name,
we would have to start dropping through
this object spreading as we went along.
This could get a little
bit more complicated.
One of the things that I recommended in
that slide earlier was to go ahead and
figure out can we make stuff flatter?
I'll kind of just pull in what the kind of
more complicated reducer would look like,
and then we will simplify
it a little bit as well.
So let's pull it in,
we'll kind of talk through it.
We'll add these.
So, if we look, we've got two action
types, which is add a user and add a task.
The point to payload is going to be
title of the task, the name of the user.
We didn't have to nest them objects
per se, in fact, let's not.
But you can see, as this object grows,
we'd have to spread out the state and
just the user array.
But then, take everything else
that's in the user array and
just add the additional payload on there.
You can imagine, we saw this in that
slide before, this grows over time.
This is a relatively simple application,
and it's already getting tedious.
When I showed that slide when we had
the city being nested under location being
nested under author, and
we show the number of spreads,
a bunch of your eyes got very wide, right?
You're like do not want,
absolutely not, right?
And so, if you find yourself doing this,
right, it is time to think about whether
either A, as a question I saw before,
which is do I need to change the shape of
the state on the way in, or do I need to
split this up between multiple reducers?
And one way to think about that is
what are the nouns in this case?
Well, changing the shape of the API if it
is one kind of thing, there are times for
performance reasons, you might even
want to split out one model as
multiple reducers,
if you're only changing, let's say,
the title all the time, but
the rest doesn't change, right?
And you could do it for
performance reasons.
But this case, we have two distinct things
that we're working with in this case,
and it would be nice if we just kinda
split these out into two smaller reducers.
Now, if you saw before,
createStore only takes one reducer, so
this is all kind of like smoke and
mirrors.
Combine reducers just basically makes one
reducer out of a bunch of small ones that
we can eventually hand to to createStore.
So how would we refactor this?
Well, we could say that this seems like,
the thing that we're doing with users,
this is one distinct thing
that we're doing with tasks.
So what if we actually said,
up here we'll say const userReducer,
and that is gonna take state,
which is gonna start
out as initialState.users and some action.
And this is why I like to use the
initialState as the default prop to each
reducer, because I can just pull in
what I need rather than having one
master initialState somewhere else.
So you can imagine, as this grew,
that object would get very big for
that initialState.
I'd like to just kind of break it up
with the reducer that's using it.
So we have the userReducer,
which is gonna take the state,
which is the users on that larger object,
and some action.
We can just pull this in, and
we're gonna have to refactor it slightly.
If I make a boo boo, someone notice.
So we've got the ADD_USER, and now,
really, this is just the actual users.
Great, and we can do something similar
here, so we don't wanna say dot users.
One thing we could do here, since we
know it's just users since this is just
a variable, let's just make our
lives easier and call it users.
And for the taskRreducer,
We'll say tasks initialState.tasks,
and the action.
And we'll pull in this code right her.
And now,
this is simply this array like that.
And so, we've made each one of
these reduces way simpler, and
now we're gonna get effectively the same
result by making what our reducer,
we'll just say combineReducers,
and we're gonna say that the users part
of the tree is gonna use userReducer.
And the tasks part of the tree
is gonna use the taskReducer.
These are all singular.
So,
if you think about the shape of
the object in the initialState, right,
we had users and tasks, right?
And so, we're basically providing that
same shape to what combineReducers gets.
So instead of having one that took the
entire object, it's gonna be like, cool,
I'm gonna create a reducer that, for
this section of the tree, for users,
is gonna use a userReducer, and for
tasks is gonna use the taskReducer, right?
So you're basically defining
what reducer should be used
on this larger state tree and
breaking it up into smaller pieces.
>> Nested like user dot.
Yeah, it's basically you're just kinda
mapping it to the shape of your state.
It can be as nested as you need.
Now, clearly, the further you nest,
the more complicated it's going to get, so
the advice that I would give in that
sense is as much as you need to and
as little as you can get away with, right?
The flatter your object is,
the easier it's going to be.
Because imagine, could you
continue to nest combineReducers?
Yes, however, when you get
that entire state object back,
guess who's responsible now for
navigating down that entire tree to get to
the piece of data that they need, right?
The flatter you can keep the object,
the easier it is for
both storing data as well as
getting the data back out, right?
It might make sense in your UI that
maybe all this stuff is nested.
Well, a lot of times, keeping that
stuff as flat as you can get away with,
nest as much as you need to, and
as little as you can get away with.
Great, so we've got a reducer here.
We can just pass that in
since they'll have their own.
What's the issue here?
Unexpected token.
>> I guess.
>> What is that?
Yeah, perfect.
So, now the store, if we wanna say console
log define string during initialization.
Reducer users returned undefined
during initialization.
If the state passes to
the reducer is undefined,
I broke one of my cardinal
rules from before.
Does anyone see what rule I broke?
Yeah?
>> You're not returning default.
So when we started off,
you said that by default I'm just gonna
return the state that gets passed to it.
You're not returning the default state-
>> Yep, exactly.
>> So the if statement was not being run,
you're not returning.
>> Exactly, exactly, right?
In the case that we don't hit
the conditional, this function returns
undefined, so we need to make sure
that we return, in this case, users.
And in the other case, tasks.
Cool, and then I gotta finish
typing the word console.log.
And this one will do store.getState.
And you can see that I have the same
basic shape to my state as I had before,
even though I split it up, right?
And so now, the really
interesting thing about this, and
one of the things I really love about the
way that the Redux implementation works,
is all of the actions
whether they are ADD_TASK or
ADD_USER will flow through
every combined reducer.
So for instance, if it's like add task
to user, both of those smaller reducers
will get the action so
they can both kinda handle it separately.
You might have take an assigned
to property on the task, and
update it to point towards the user.
You might take the task ID and
put it on an array of tasks for
the user as well, right?
Every action flows through every single
reducer, which means to do a thing,
you don't have to figure
multiple actions to
handle every single step
that you need to do.
You can fire one action and have that
action flow through all of the combined
reducers and
be able to update the state accordingly.
So it's very similar to
having one giant reducer but
you won't end up being very displeased
with yourself as your application grows.
Great.
>> What if same
attaining the same property?
Right?
>> So the question was what if different
reducers change the same property?
The great news is that they can't.
Because if you look at the user reducer,
it only has access to the users
part of this state tree, right?
And the tasks reducer only has access
the task part of the state tree.
They've basically taken our large
state tree for our application and
divided it up into a bunch
of smaller pieces so
that each one of these reducers handles
its own little part of the tree.
So two different users can't modify the
same piece of state cuz they don't have
access to it.